My team and the larger organization can clearly articulate the goals of the consulting team.
Our customers and our team would agree on our value proposition.
Our team's goals support the goals of the larger organization and are aligned with those of other departments (e.g. Sales, Marketing, Product Management).
Marketing and Sales bring leads to the Services team that are appropriate to our role and value proposition.
Sales, Marketing, and Product Management work in partnership with Services to meet corporate objectives and customer needs.
Services leadership is an integral part of the executive team, providing leadership and direction at the corporate and departmental level.
Services, Sales, and Marketing have defined a Go To Market strategy with measurable objectives.
Market positioning and branding reflect the Services team's core purpose and value proposition.
Our marketing tools support lead generation, prospecting, and closing, and include a web presence, datasheets, and calls to action.
Marketing regularly executes lead generation campaigns that are aligned with the goals of the Services team.
Sales and Services consistently collaborate on Sales-driven prospecting and Services-led scope/proposal development.
Our backlog is manageable: Sales generates leads in balance with the Services team's capacity.
Our team has completed a SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats) and reviews it regularly to identify areas of strategic improvement.
The Services Portfolio contains a discrete set of service offerings defined and approved by Services leadership.
Our service offerings map directly to specific pains commonly felt by our target market.
The Services team has the necessary skills to deliver our service offerings at a high level of quality and profitability.
Services pricing aligns to the market and reflects our team's expertise, experience, and value creation.
Sales consistently sells services in accord with our established process.
Any deviation from the established sales process, or selling of services outside the services portfolio, is properly communicated to Services management.
Our knowledge management system includes the delivery tools and templates needed to execute services at a consistent level of quality.
Our project management practices enable on-time, on-budget project delivery and a high level of customer satisfaction.
Consultants and Project Managers communicate risk and escalate issues in a timely manner.
We use quantifiable metrics to identify "At Risk" projects and have a consistent method of tracking and managing them.
Our assessment processes indicate a high level of quality across consultants and project types.
We review each project at completion and communicate lessons learned throughout Services, Sales, Product Management, Marketing, and senior leadership as necessary.
We use a well-defined, well-executed New Hire Onboarding (NHO) program.
We measure the effectiveness of our NHO program.
We have a sufficient annual budget to train our staff and develop their skills.
We have sufficient time to train our staff and develop their skills.
We have a development program that supports those who want to follow a management track and those who want to follow a technical track.
Services team members do not need to leave the department or company to grow their skills, responsibilities, and salary.
We actively use a skills matrix to ensure we have the right skills in house and can assign the people with the right skills to projects.
Our skills matrix is used as a tool to discuss skills development with each team member.
We provide and incentivize a system for team members to capture important lessons learned.
Services team members develop their personal brands through thought leadership (writing, speaking, blogging, etc.).
The Key Performance Indicators (metrics) are reviewed regularly by Services management, Finance, and senior leadership and are strongly aligned with the goals and objectives of the Services team.
Team members are empowered to make decisions but reach out to management for approval when required.
A standard set of project- and practice-level reports are created and distributed regularly among project teams, the Services department, and the larger organization.
Pre-approved contract templates exist and are routinely used for services work.
The Services team always reviews and approves contracts for services offerings before they are sent to the customer.
Our project/resource scheduling system allows us to assign resources in a timely manner after a customer signs a contract.
Team members can see future work assignments as well as their active projects.
Consultants have visibility into upcoming projects to which they are not assigned but for which they have skills that are needed.
Team members are required and expected to submit records of time spent on projects and tasks, as well as expenses incurred at the project and practice level.
The delivery project manager reviews and approves invoices before they are sent to customers, particularly for time and materials or milestone-based projects.
